_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: >
    UC Berkeley, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
profile:
  align: right
  image: Joon_Kim_Photo.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: false # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

I am a junior at UC Berkeley majoring in EECS. My interest lies broadly in the complementary dynamics between Theoretical Computer Science and Computational Engineering and Sciences. I aspire to work in both directions, bringing the Computational Lens to other disciplines as well as being inspired by engineering and sciences for developing theoretical ideas in CS. My experience reflects this, as I have participated in multiple interdisciplinary research projects spanning Automotive Security, Healthcare, Artificial Intelligence, and Geography. Currently, I am working with the [TI Lab](https://tilabberkeley.com) for novel discoveries in DNA origami. In my free time, I usually practice playing the acoustic guitar, watch Netflix or Youtube, or [pick up](./readings) a random CS/Math textbook and hope I understand more than one sentence.

<details markdown="block">
  <summary>Detailed Summary</summary>
- This summer, I participated in a [SURF-REU program](https://sandip.ece.ufl.edu/reu-22/) at University of Florida and researched automotive security, led by Professor Sandip Ray. 
- In Fall 24, I worked as an undergraduate researcher in the [C.H.E.N. Lab](https://chenlab.io/), affiliated with [BAIR](https://bair.berkeley.edu/) and [CPH](https://computationalhealth.berkeley.edu/), led by Professor [Irene Chen](https://irenechen.net/). There, I investigated the effect of zero-shot LLM inference on self-supervised learning alongside Ph.D. candidate [Jichan Chung](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=pXQfWTkAAAAJ&hl=en). 
- Previously, I worked as a research intern at [JLK Inc.](https://jlkgroup.com/en/about/), researching federated learning models applied to MRI image segmentation. 
- During my military service in 2023, I was fortunate to be advised by Professor Sejin Park to research defensive techniques against Deep Leakage in federated learning.
- In Spring 22, I started my research journey with a URAP program in [Studio.geo](https://studiogeo.berkeley.edu/) in the Geography department at Berkeley, led by Professor Clancy Wilmott. There, I explored uses and limitations of Generative AI models in generating 'fake' maps.
</details>

Commit message:

update reading and add current interest list to about page

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: >
    UC Berkeley, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
profile:
  align: right
  image: Joon_Kim_Photo.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: false # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

I am a junior at UC Berkeley majoring in EECS. My interest lies broadly in the complementary dynamics between Theoretical Computer Science and Computational Engineering and Sciences. I aspire to work in both directions, bringing the Computational Lens to other disciplines as well as being inspired by engineering and sciences for developing theoretical ideas in CS. My experience reflects this, as I have participated in multiple interdisciplinary research projects spanning Automotive Security, Healthcare, Artificial Intelligence, and Geography. Currently, I am working with the [TI Lab](https://tilabberkeley.com) for novel discoveries in DNA origami. In my free time, I usually practice playing the acoustic guitar, perform pullups, watch Netflix or YouTube, or [pick up](./readings) a random CS/Math textbook and hope I understand more than one sentence.

<details markdown="block">
  <summary>Detailed Summary</summary>
- This summer, I participated in a [SURF-REU program](https://sandip.ece.ufl.edu/reu-22/) at University of Florida and researched automotive security, led by Professor Sandip Ray. 
- In Fall 24, I worked as an undergraduate researcher in the [C.H.E.N. Lab](https://chenlab.io/), affiliated with [BAIR](https://bair.berkeley.edu/) and [CPH](https://computationalhealth.berkeley.edu/), led by Professor [Irene Chen](https://irenechen.net/). There, I investigated the effect of zero-shot LLM inference on self-supervised learning alongside Ph.D. candidate [Jichan Chung](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=pXQfWTkAAAAJ&hl=en). 
- Previously, I worked as a research intern at [JLK Inc.](https://jlkgroup.com/en/about/), researching federated learning models applied to MRI image segmentation. 
- During my military service in 2023, I was fortunate to be advised by Professor Sejin Park to research defensive techniques against Deep Leakage in federated learning.
- In Spring 22, I started my research journey with a URAP program in [Studio.geo](https://studiogeo.berkeley.edu/) in the Geography department at Berkeley, led by Professor Clancy Wilmott. There, I explored uses and limitations of Generative AI models in generating 'fake' maps.
</details>

<details markdown="block">
  <summary>List of Current Interests</summary>
- TCS/Algorithms Toolbox
    - Combinatorial
    - Randomized
    - Approximation
    - Spectral
- NP-Optimization
    - Heuristics
    - Constraint Programming
    - Machine Learning (when justified!)
- Algorithm Engineering
    - Real data inputs
    - Beyond worst-case analysis
    - Performance evaluation
- Scientific Modeling/Computing
    - Bioinformatics
    - Probabilistic/Statistical models
    - Formal methods
</details>
