_pages/coursework.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /coursework/
title: coursework
description: Courses taken at UC Berkeley. Hand-scribed lecture notes for selected courses. Some courses additional deliverables (scribe notes, projects, etc). All notes are free to use by any individuals.
nav: true
nav_order: 6
---

#### Spring 26 (Tentative)
- CS 189: Introduction to Machine Learning
- CS 194-198: Networks: Models, Processes & Algorithms
- CS 274: Computational Geometry
- MUSIC 128: Topics in the History of Music

#### Fall 25
- CS 270: Combinatorial Algorithms and Data Structures (A)
- CS 294-180: Partition Functions: Algorithms and Complexity (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS294-Partition_Functions.pdf) \| [Presentation Writeup](../assets/pdf/projects/Partition_Functions_Writeup.pdf) on [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.02570)
- CS 194-302: Computational Single-Cell And Systems Immunology (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS194-Immunology.pdf) \| [Class Presentation PDF](../assets/pdf/presentations/Cohort_Studies_Presentation.pdf) \| [Final Report](../assets/pdf/projects/Immunology_Report.pdf)
- EECS 249B: Cyber Physical System Design Principles and Applications (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/EECS249B.pdf) \| [Final Report](../assets/pdf/projects/CPS_Report.pdf)
- UGIS 192D (URAP): Supervised Research: Physical Sciences (P)

#### Spring 25 
- CS 174: Combinatorics and Discrete Probability (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS174.pdf)
- CS 176: Algorithms for Computational Biology (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS176.pdf) \| [Literature Review](../assets/pdf/projects/CS176-LitReview.pdf) on [Paper](https://genomebiology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13059-020-02000-8)
- CS 177: Algorithmic Economics (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS177.pdf) \| [Lecture 6 Scribe Notes](../assets/pdf/scribe_notes/CS177-Lecture6.pdf)
- CS 294-284: Constraint Satisfaction Problems (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS294-CSP.pdf) \| [Lecture 4 Scribe Notes](../assets/pdf/scribe_notes/CS294-CSP-Lecture4.pdf)

#### Fall 24
- CS 170: Efficient Algorithms and Intractable Problems (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS170.pdf)
- CS 188: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS188.pdf)
- CS 61C: Great Ideas in Computer Architecture (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS61C.pdf)
- CS 199 (Lab Research): Supervised Independent Study (P)

#### Summer 24
- CS 61BL: Data Structures and Programming Methodology (A+)

> Leave of absence Fall 22 - Spring 24 due to Military Service in South Korea

#### Spring 22
- CS 70: Discrete Mathematics and Probability Theory (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS70.pdf)
- EECS 16B: Designing Information Devices and Systems II (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/EECS16B.pdf)
- ENGIN 7: Introduction to Computer Programming for Scientists and Engineers (A+)
- HIST 137AC: Immigrants and Immigration as U.S. History (P)
- UGIS 192E (URAP): Supervised Research: Interdisciplinary Studies (P)

#### Fall 21
- EECS 16A: Designing Information Devices and Systems I (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/EECS16A.pdf)
- MATH 53: Multivariable Calculus (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/MATH53.pdf)
- PHYSICS 7B: Physics for Scientists and Engineers (A)
- LEGALST R1B: Reading and Composition in Connection with the Law as a Social Institution (A)

#### Summer 19
- CS 61A: The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (A+)
- DATA C8: Foundations of Data Science (A)

Commit message:

Add Lean to potential coursework

_pages/coursework.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /coursework/
title: coursework
description: Courses taken at UC Berkeley. Hand-scribed lecture notes for selected courses. Some courses additional deliverables (scribe notes, projects, etc). All notes are free to use by any individuals.
nav: true
nav_order: 6
---

#### Spring 26 (Tentative)
- CS 194-198: Networks: Models, Processes & Algorithms
- CS 274: Computational Geometry
- CS 189: Introduction to Machine Learning OR CS 294-268: Proving Tcs And Math Theorems In Lean
- MUSIC 128: Topics in the History of Music

#### Fall 25
- CS 270: Combinatorial Algorithms and Data Structures (A)
- CS 294-180: Partition Functions: Algorithms and Complexity (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS294-Partition_Functions.pdf) \| [Presentation Writeup](../assets/pdf/projects/Partition_Functions_Writeup.pdf) on [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.02570)
- CS 194-302: Computational Single-Cell And Systems Immunology (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS194-Immunology.pdf) \| [Class Presentation PDF](../assets/pdf/presentations/Cohort_Studies_Presentation.pdf) \| [Final Report](../assets/pdf/projects/Immunology_Report.pdf)
- EECS 249B: Cyber Physical System Design Principles and Applications (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/EECS249B.pdf) \| [Final Report](../assets/pdf/projects/CPS_Report.pdf)
- UGIS 192D (URAP): Supervised Research: Physical Sciences (P)

#### Spring 25 
- CS 174: Combinatorics and Discrete Probability (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS174.pdf)
- CS 176: Algorithms for Computational Biology (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS176.pdf) \| [Literature Review](../assets/pdf/projects/CS176-LitReview.pdf) on [Paper](https://genomebiology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13059-020-02000-8)
- CS 177: Algorithmic Economics (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS177.pdf) \| [Lecture 6 Scribe Notes](../assets/pdf/scribe_notes/CS177-Lecture6.pdf)
- CS 294-284: Constraint Satisfaction Problems (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS294-CSP.pdf) \| [Lecture 4 Scribe Notes](../assets/pdf/scribe_notes/CS294-CSP-Lecture4.pdf)

#### Fall 24
- CS 170: Efficient Algorithms and Intractable Problems (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS170.pdf)
- CS 188: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS188.pdf)
- CS 61C: Great Ideas in Computer Architecture (A) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS61C.pdf)
- CS 199 (Lab Research): Supervised Independent Study (P)

#### Summer 24
- CS 61BL: Data Structures and Programming Methodology (A+)

> Leave of absence Fall 22 - Spring 24 due to Military Service in South Korea

#### Spring 22
- CS 70: Discrete Mathematics and Probability Theory (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/CS70.pdf)
- EECS 16B: Designing Information Devices and Systems II (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/EECS16B.pdf)
- ENGIN 7: Introduction to Computer Programming for Scientists and Engineers (A+)
- HIST 137AC: Immigrants and Immigration as U.S. History (P)
- UGIS 192E (URAP): Supervised Research: Interdisciplinary Studies (P)

#### Fall 21
- EECS 16A: Designing Information Devices and Systems I (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/EECS16A.pdf)
- MATH 53: Multivariable Calculus (A+) [Notes](../assets/pdf/class_notes/MATH53.pdf)
- PHYSICS 7B: Physics for Scientists and Engineers (A)
- LEGALST R1B: Reading and Composition in Connection with the Law as a Social Institution (A)

#### Summer 19
- CS 61A: The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (A+)
- DATA C8: Foundations of Data Science (A)
